---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Essay 4 Progress In Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-08
published: true
labels:
  - Essay Assignment 1
---

<p> My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: </p>
Looking at my programming skills, overall I understand the very basics and I am able to create a webpage. I wouldn’t say any skills have greatly improved being that I am still having trouble with certain parts. But I have gotten to understand how to use CSS better and be able to change the layout of the page to how I want it to be designed. Diving deeper into creating a webpage I have learned how to link my product array that I created into my html coding loop. This allows me to either add or subtract any products I would like without having to change the code. I have gotten better at loops are how they work. I wouldn’t say I have a solid understanding but it is getting there. Something I do have a pretty strong understanding of is the GET and POST method. After completing this assignment it has definitely challenged me to apply methods we have been learning throughout the semester. I really got to see what parts specifically I need more work in. 
<p> I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills: </p>
Something that I need to work on for improving my programming skills would be the server side getting redirected if there are any errors. My IR4 was to create where the button is changed when there is an error quantity inputted on the client side. I really had absolutely no idea how to do this and link it to my products.html page while creating “if” statements on server.js. And I honestly still do not understand how to do that. I did try to get help but there was no luck there and I was still very stuck. Overall I would say I need to work on understanding how to create a dynamic button and have it linked with the input “submit” redirect. Another thing that I need to improve on is my syntax errors. I have a lot of those and they really stop me progressing on my assignment. The way I am trying to prove this is by looking line by line and using the search function to better ensure that things are being spelled correctly in every part of the code. 
<p> I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast: </p>
Reading this statement I wouldn’t say I can do them without copying the screencast. I can definitely get up to certain parts without the screencast but there are still areas that I need to reference the video. I have learned things from the WODs, I wouldn’t say I have learned a lot. But they have been helpful with the base of doing things that were needed in the assignment. When I look back at the WODs I think they look so simple compared to what we are doing in this project. I would say the most helpful WOD we have completed would be the Store1 since that had us linking the js file to the html file. 
<p> The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence: </p>
The labs are helpful, but I would say I would be able to learn more if there were videos going through the labs that I could review. Since the class is so short and we are trying to get through the lab it takes away from really being able to have a firm grounding on what the lab is doing. I guess the best way to explain it would be saying that the labs can be an information overload. If there were videos that follow the lab it would be nice to go back and to really analyze how the professor is explaining the concepts. 
<p> I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2: </p>
I have learned a lot about my abilities from Assignment 1, I have learned what areas I need to improve on. I wouldn’t say I am ready to work on Assignment 2 but I know that I can get through it. 
<p> I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways: </p>
I believe a way that the class could be improved is by having tutors that we can contact. I believe that we get sufficient help from the professor but since the things we work on are complicated to new people it would be nice to have some one on one with someone who I can ask questions. Asking questions helps me understand in my mind. I feel like I have one question then when I get the answer I have more questions, and asking more questions has always helped me really get to understand concepts. Another thing is again having videos of the professor going through the labs would be helpful. Just so that I could relisten to what the professor is saying and how they are working through the lab exercises. 
<p> What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.): </p>
What helps me the most in this class is working with classmates, looking on youtube, and one on one help. The reason why I feel like these three things help me learn is because I am able to ask clarifying questions that I need to be able to understand. I feel as if my questions are really tailored to the way I think so being able to talk it over with someone whether it be a classmate or professor helps me grasp the concepts. Lastly, youtube helps me learn since we don’t have reference videos from completing the labs. I will say the before videos that we have to watch before we start the lab are helpful. But I think having videos of actually going through the labs would be a helpful add on. Using youtube I can look up what we were doing in the labs on youtube and I can find someone who is going over the concept and I try to learn it from there as well. 

