---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Essay 5 Reflecting on Assignment 2"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-22
published: true
labels:
  - Essay Assignment 2
---

<p> Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details </p>
For this assignment we were assigned to create a login and registration page for our users. We also needed to be a secure website so that the client could not access any validation that was being processed. We had to do all the validation on our server side. We also needed to make the page more personalized to the client, we did this by adding the name of the client on the invoice. Lastly we had to make sure that the passwords and usernames were within specific requirements that would be validated as a valid input. 
<p> What did you learn from this assignment? </p>
From this assignment I have learned more about if statements and encryption. I have also learned more about debugging and how to target the issue. I am still learning how to tackle the bigger issues using  debugging. But now I have learned where exactly we want to place the debug statements to see if the function or statement we created is actually running when something is submitted on the webpage. It was interesting to implement the encryption onto the passwords, it was simpler than I thought it was going to be. It was super cool to see how the cipher function worked and the different options that can be implemented. 
<p> Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself). </p>
I worked with a partner. Overall I gave myself a 45% and them a 55%. The reason being for this is because he was more proficient with debugging. I was able to debug some things but when it came to the more complicated issues he was able to solve them. Overall I do feel like it was pretty even, we both put in a lot of effort and long hours working on this Assignment. I developed the registration page and the edit user page. He mostly focused on the login and creating the html pages. We both worked together when creating the different if statements that were needed. We also both collaborated with the style of the different pages and made each page look cohesive. We both did our IRs by yourself so that was even as well. I believe that this project was even with the work, but I do want to say that tougher debugging issues were handled by him more. 
<p> How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with? </p>
The main issue we were having was that our query string holding the quantities input by the client was not holding over to the register page and back to the login to the invoice. We did not get help when we needed it. We reached out to the Professor over email and during the class help zoom call. Unfortunately our issue was unresolvable with the advice that the Professor was giving us. We tried multiple times to get our issue addressed but every time we were met with the same response of “debug it”/console.log it. It wasn’t till the night of the assignment that we finally got the real help we needed. During the last zoom meeting he finally realized that debugging wasn’t going to solve the problem. He finally copied the code from our github and tried to debug it himself during the call. He had no luck while on the call and had to go. He later figured out the issue but it was about 9:40pm the night it was due. Come to find out the issue we were having had nothing to do with our code; it was the program that was recommended to use. Nodemon was causing the server to reset and wipe the query string and once we switched to node the query string was being passed. 
<p> How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1? </p>
The development of this Assignment to Assignment 1 was different because we had to create a lot more if statements when creating the register page. This was because we had to ensure that what was getting input was in the correct format that we needed the client to enter. We also had to add a login page and have a .json file that held all the users information. Then we had to make sure that the user information was valid information on our server side. Assignment 1 did not have as many moving parts as Assignment 2 so implementing those changes was a big difference from Assignment 1. 
<p> Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging </p>
Out of a 100% I would say at least 50% went to debugging and 20% went to writing the codes. Lastly, 30% went to researching and figuring out how to implement the task we wanted to do.
<p> Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well? </p>
What worked well was working with my partner, we were able to talk things out and collaborate on ideas. The one thing that didn’t work well was the time constraint. Just going from Assignment 1 to have a lab then given only a week and a half to work on Assignment 2. Another thing that didn’t work well was that we didn’t have much support from our instructor. We were having trouble but the issue was not resolved till the night the assignment was due. 
<p> If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently? </p>
If I could go back, there would be nothing I would change. The main issue we had was unresolvable and even took the Professor time to pinpoint the issue. I don’t know how we could’ve stressed the issue differently so that the Professor would understand what we were going through. I believe I used the help route we were given. We emailed and I even went to a zoom meeting before the one that was on the day of the assignment due for help and it was the same response. I am not sure how we could have approached it in a different way so that we got the help earlier. 
