---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Personnel Compensation"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-14
published: false
labels:
  - Human Resouces
---

Group Research Paper: Personnel Compensation
Team Resources: Erin Tachino, Fharoh Omick, Natalie Kwon, Gage Lee, Hannah Li, & Mackenzie Plunkett
Shidler College of Business, University of Hawai’i HRM 453: Personnel Compensation
Dr. Cristina Suarez
May 14, 2022
Table of Contents
Introduction by Erin Tachino ..................................................................... 2 Incentive Pay as Motivation by Hannah Li...................................................... 8 Cross-Cultural Differences in Compensation by Fharoh Omick............................. 14 Strategic Employee Recognition by Gage Lee...................................................21 How AI is Affecting Compensation Decisions by Natalie Kwon..............................27 Tuition Reimbursement & Conclusion by Mackenzie Plunkett ...............................33
1

Erin Tachino: Introduction
Compensation can come in many different forms. Overall compensation means wages paid to employees by employers for work performed. Compensation can also be short-term or long-term incentives for employees. Compensation can be base pay, variable pay, and differential pay. Personnel compensation is covered by all these different types of pay (SHRM, 2021). When employees work hard for a company; providing extra compensation to recognize the work that an employee has put in, can be extremely beneficial to the company. When a company gives meaningful compensation for employees' work it creates a strong relationship between the two. No one wants to be underappreciated.
When a company offers compensation, it is important for the company to know their limits. Having great benefits for employees is amazing but a company needs to make sure that these benefits are feasible for the company to offer. Compensation falls under the Human resources department of the company. They are the ones who create a compensation plan or create incentive compensation. Creating reachable goals for employees that are still in the company's budget is the trick. Working for bigger companies there is a larger incentive compensation so smaller companies need to be creative in compensation.
History of the Development of Compensation
Compensation isn’t always about rewards; it can also be for work related injuries. Workers’ compensation became very prevalent during the industrial revolution. Many people were working with dangerous machinery, and some got severely hurt. Some injuries were so bad that people couldn’t return to work. Companies weren’t being held accountable for these injuries and many people who were hurt got zero help from their employers. In the 1800s, there were a few laws that protected the companies from workers who were injured on the job.
2
 
The 3 laws were, Contributory negligence, "Fellow servant" doctrine, and Assumption risk (The Hartford, 2021). These laws made it extremely hard for the employees to prove that the liability should fall on the company. These laws even had the nickname known as the “unholy trinity of defenses”. Contributory negligence made it so even if the work conditions were awful as one could imagine; if an employee were to slip and lose an arm, they would not be liable to any compensation from the company. This law was established because of the Martin v. Wabash Railroad case. In this case the freight conductor fell off his train, inspectors ruled it to be a loose handrail, but the company argued under contributory negligence; that inspection of the train and any faulty equipment was part of the conductors duties. The train conductor did not get any compensation due to this.
Fellow servant doctrine states that if an employee gets hurt by another employee the company will not give any compensation to the injured employee (The Hartford, 2021). This made it almost impossible for an injured employee to make a case against the company. Many factors at the time where all assembly lines so normally injuries would come from another employee because all the tasks were intertwined with one another. Lastly, we have assumption risk. Assumption risk is probably the worst out of the 3 laws. This is because it states that employees knew and accepted all risks involved with the job when signing the contract (The Hartford, 2021). In order to work for these companies’ employees were required to sign the contracts that released the employees’ rights to sue if they got hurt on the job. Many people during this time called these contracts “workers’ rights to die” or “death contracts”. A lot of these workers who were injured and unable to return weren’t fighting for just the money from the compensation but fighting for their families to be able to survive with one person in the house
3
                 
unable to work. Companies were handing off the blame to others and dodging paying employee compensation for the injuries sustained at work.
It wasn’t till the early 1990s that workers finally saw laws getting passed to compensate them for injuries sustained at work. The first group of people that got compensation rights were railroad workers. In 1908 the Federal Employers Liability Act was enacted, this allowed railroad workers to claim compensation if they prove negligence for their injury (Iowa Orthopaedic Journal, 2021). This was the beginning of workers compensation. In today's modern day most states require employers to have compensation insurance for their workers. This ensures that any worker under this employer will get access to compensation if they were hurt on the job.
Wells Fargo Case Study
Now let's look at a case study of the misuse of personnel compensation. The case that is being covered is the Wells Fargo scam. This case was one of the biggest fraud cases for a bank in the United States. Wells Fargo is one of the most well-known and profitable banks in America. They have been around since the mid 1800s, founded in New York, NY. In 2016 Wells Fargo had about 269,100,000 employees. Compared to other banks in America, Wells Fargo is ranked number #3 in America. About 70 million people in the country use this bank for their finances. This scam all started when employees were told to meet quotas and were paid extra for meeting or exceeding the goals for the quota.
In 2016, it came to light that Wells Fargo encouraged employees to create unauthorized accounts under their customers' names. These unsuspecting customers would not be notified about the new account because employees were using their personal contact information when opening these unauthorized accounts. Over 2 million fake accounts were reported to be created. Wells Fargo did not gain any revenue from these accounts, the employees simply did this so they
4
   
would get the incentive compensation (Barro, J, 2016). To create these unauthorized accounts employees were taking small amounts of money from the current accounts of its customers and putting it into the new unauthorized accounts. Once quotas were met the employee would then close the unauthorized accounts and put the money back into the original account. Wells Fargo admitted this scam took place from 2002 to 2016.
This case sheds light on how important it is to ensure that incentive compensation is implemented and monitored correctly. Incentive compensation programs can be very beneficial for the company and the employees. Managers must make sure that these incentive compensations don’t deviate from its intended purpose. When it does deviate from its original purpose it can damage the organization reputation and image. Making sure these incentives compensations are monitored and measured overtime isn’t just to see if the program is being misused, it can also give the company data. The data that can come from monitoring the incentive compensations will tell the company if these incentives are making a difference in revenues. Such as are the employees being motivated by these incentives or are these the right incentives that the employees want to work hard for. By tracking and monitoring the compensation program, the company can find if the incentives aren’t being used. Then from there the company can figure out why employees aren’t motivated to meet the goals or if the goals are intangible at this time. After this data is collected the company can find solutions to why these incentives are working and they can shift their incentives to align better for the employees.
How Technology has Impacted Compensation
Being able to retain this type of data has revolutionized the way companies operate. Technology has greatly impacted personnel compensation. Nowadays with everything being on
5
 
the internet it makes processing documents, keeping statements on record, and compensation trackable. Before everything would be filed and sent up to another department for processing but now the Human resource department can request or submit documents in a matter of seconds Beqom. (2021, May 21). There are many parts to releasing compensation to employees, being able to keep track of each employee's papers and statements makes this process a lot simpler. This allows the company to reduce the margin of error that can occur when processing compensation. Many companies today are world-wide with employees who are working from different locations. Technology bridges this locational gap. It allows the company to process paperwork that is sent from thousands of miles away.
Processing paperwork using technology isn’t the only benefit that technology allows a company to do. Such as the concept mentioned earlier about using technology to track incentive compensation. Not only can technology help measure incentive compensation for companies, but it also can measure pay, promotional rises and remedial adjustments. Having this technology that can track these things can help the company ensure that its employees are getting fair and competitive pay and rises. This helps companies with the retention of its employees. Without having technology to be able to track all these different factors the Human Resources departments would be overwhelmed with the amount of paperwork.
Compensation can differ from quarter to quarter, there is some compensation that is instilled in the company's values and will not change. To keep up with present market value the Human Resource department must constantly re-strategizing every time there is a shift in the market value. Many companies offer stocks as a compensatory method. So, ensuring that the company is dividing up the stocks correctly is a key strategy. The Human Resource department would spend hours constantly watching or any changes within the market. With technology now
6

the Human Resource department has easy access to tracking any changes. Being able to stay ahead of the ever-changing market allows the Human Resource department to ensure all employees are getting the correct compensation; this minimizes the amount of employee pay complaints.
Technology also allows employees easy access to compensation benefits. Many companies have a website specialized to their company. The online database allows current and new employees to review and sign documents, look at their personal history statements, check hours/schedules, look at past paycheck stubs, access benefit information and view the company’s mission and values. About 30 years ago almost all of this was on paper and would be in file cabinets. Now with technology all this can be accessed by one's home computer. People don’t even have to go into work to check. When employees can access compensation information it benefits them and the company. With technology it allows the company to be more transparent with their employees. Being able to access all this information takes some weight off the Human resources department shoulders. Many questions can be answered through this specialized database.
This research paper will cover personnel compensation and all the different parts that make up compensation. We will take a deep drive into different cases about how different companies have handled compensation. There are many different types of compensation, and this paper will cover all the different types; and how they can be beneficial or negative to a company's success. We believe that ensuring proper compensation is an important factor to the success of a company. In today’s modern world companies can use technology to their advantage. There are many ways that technology has enabled compensation plans to become the best for employees and employers. Throughout this paper we will see how different types of
7

technology are implemented into the compensation process. Compensation for employees is how companies can express their gratitude for their employees' hard work; creating the correct compensation is key.
Hannah Li: Incentive Pay as Motivation
As discussed earlier, personnel compensation is the combination of salaries, wages, and benefits that employees receive from their employer. Personnel compensation includes salary along with benefits and bonuses. The largest sum payments employees will receive is their salary and is usually the initial number that attracts employees to jobs, but that compensation number rises with the bonuses awarded. Not all positions and employers offer bonuses or incentive pay, but the inclusion or potential of earning one is an enticing benefit to employees on top of their salary pay. As literally stated in the term, incentive pay is designed to motivate employees and is an incentive to do their best work to achieve these bonuses. The commonality of incentive pay has grown extensively in the past decades with salary negotiations and compensation plans expanding to attract and retain employees. This section will discuss incentive pay as a source of employee motivation, types of bonuses, how it is determined and rewarded, and its effectiveness as a means of incentive.
What is Incentive Pay?
Incentive pay is defined as a financial or non-monetary reward offered to employees for performance rather than the total number of hours worked. It is used as a motivational tool to boost morale and ensure employees perform at their best (Benstead, 2018). It is important to note that companies are not required to provide incentive pay for their employees as it is at the discretion of the organization. Incentive pay, more widely known as bonuses come in many
8
 
forms, the most common being monetary payments. Organizations offer incentive pay to boost productivity, increase sales, retain employees, and increase morale (Betterteam, 2021). Incentive pay can be rewarded to outstanding performing employees or whole teams, varying by the organization since bigger companies are able to offer more incentive bonuses since they have more funds to reward and invest in their employees. Bigger organizations, especially those with a large number of employees are more likely to introduce incentive pay as motivation and incentive to reach company goals. Implementation of such incentive pay plans would increase revenue in the organization and the bonuses provided for employees that made this happen is in a way, a return on investment. Theoretically, incentive pay such as bonuses encourages employees to perform better and achieve company goals, but this is not always the case.
Types of Incentive Pay
There are different types of incentives, casual and structured incentives. Though both
casual and structured incentives can include monetary rewards, the two vary in structure. Casual incentives are given to employees at any time for high performance or to retain employees. Casual incentive rewards are more sporadic and given when deemed appropriate. Additionally, the rewards given can include non-monetary items such as small gifts, meals, or gift cards. Meanwhile, structured incentives are set according to specific goals and paid at a percentage rate. In comparison to casual incentives, structured incentives can be seen as more consistent. Rewards to structured incentives include company stock, paid time off, commission, and year- end bonuses (Betterteam, 2021 ). Structured incentives are also a way to retain employees, for example, many organizations offer company stock after a certain amount of time spent at the organization, and time off and year-end bonus amounts increase with the time spent at the company.
9
 
How is Incentive Pay Calculated?
One of the more meticulous parts of an incentive plan is calculating the bonus pay, and
working with numbers and percentages of the payment. These details are established by employers at the beginning of a payment period or during a negotiation. The measurement of whether one should be rewarded the bonus and the amount is determined by the achievement of the goal. Let's start off with a single employee bonus calculation, sales-based incentives. For example, if an employee made fifty thousand dollars in sales for the year, and their sales incentive bonus is ten percent, the employee’s incentive payment would be five thousand dollars. This sales-based incentive as such motivates employees to make more sales because, in return, they get a percentage of the sales, this method is also known as commission. A sales-based incentive is reliant on a single employee’s work and performance, department bonuses rely on a whole team of workers’ performances and outcomes. Organizations usually issue goals to specific departments and once the goal is accomplished, the incentive payment is rewarded and split amongst the team. Calculations for department goal pay can be simple as well, for example, if the department incentive pay is fifteen thousand dollars and there are eight employees in the team, each employee will receive $1875 as their incentive bonus. Complications can arise from this if members of the team did not contribute to the goal equally (Indeed, 2021). As for the non- monetary goals mentioned earlier such as extra paid days off, small gifts, or even work flexibility, there is no specific calculation for these incentives. Non-monetary incentive rewards are given by availability and are determined by tracking company expenses (Payscale, 2021). Effectiveness of Incentive Pay
Incentive Pay and bonuses are always desirable to employees and many employers are willing to offer them the encouragement it induces, but this strategy does not always work in
10
  
favor of the organization and the possibility of failure lingers. The advantages of offering incentive pay include overall happier employees, better employee performance and retention, better organizational performance, and helping execute business strategy (Wiebush, 2022). These advantages can be viewed as cause and effect, happier employees lead to better companies. Incentive pay makes for happier employees which keeps staff motivated and increases job satisfaction and morale in the organization. This increased morale leads to better employee performance and retention, happier employees are less likely to leave the organization, and establishes loyalty to the organization. With a combination of high-performing employees and long-term employees, the organization continues to do well which is why incentive pay for employees is commonly discussed in compensation negotiations.
Though incentive pay is generally viewed in a positive light, many experts and high business leaders doubt the effectiveness of incentive pay. Arguments against the effectiveness of incentive pay include the belief that pay is not a motivator, rewards are manipulative, rewards rupture relationships, discourage risk-taking, and undermine interest (Kohn, 2014). By applying behaviorist theory, the effectiveness of incentive compensation can be debunked by identifying human motivators and organizational behaviors. Surveys have found that there is no solid evidence that pay increases would in relation increase work effort. Additionally, there is also the possibility that the employee does not reach their goal to be awarded the bonus. Federick Herzberg, a distinguished business professor, argues that this result can be felt like a punishment, as not receiving a reward one had expected to receive is also indistinguishable from being punished. Another downside of incentive pay is that incentive pay ruptures relationships. When employees are all competing for limited rewards, the pressure for individual gain increases. Given that organizational success is very reliant on cohesive teamwork, an environment where
11

employees are competing against each other for a bonus eliminates the quality of cooperation that holds up the organization. Additionally, incentive pay discourages risk-taking, when employees are competing for a bonus, people tend to stick to the rules to eliminate the risk of mistakes and not receiving the bonus (Kohn, 2014). Contrary to popular belief, incentive pay is not always the best motivation for employees and organizations put effectiveness and relationships at risk if choosing to organize a bonus system.
Given the benefits and drawbacks of incentive pay, the choice to establish an incentive pay system is ultimately up to the employer. If an organization is seeking to attract and retain happy employees, an incentive pay plan may be appropriate but may risk a lack of creativity and slow organizational growth.
Incentive Pay Trends
Organizational structure and workplace environments are constantly changing, especially in an era where employees have higher leverage in their positions. Along with these changing times, incentive pay and compensation are expected to change as well. Thanks to the progressive Millennial generation, “spot bonus” programs saw a significant increase in 2021. Spot bonuses are given upon completion of projects or assignments, giving immediate recognition and award to the employee or team (Carver, 2021). Another incentive pay trends that are predicted are more frequent bonuses, many organizations have already started awarding bonuses at the end of shorter terms. Rather than the traditional annual reward, incentive pay is being more frequently rewarded monthly or quarterly (Miller, 2020). These short-term incentives can be a consistent way to motivate employees to reach long-term goals through persistent recognition and bonuses. Another incentive pay trend influenced by the increasing competitiveness of the job market is long-term cash incentives. As the demand for certain roles and positions increases, tempting
12
 
employees to leave current roles for positions at other organizations. Long-term incentives are tied to short-term incentives where a percentage of the short-term incentive award is deferred and is to be awarded after a longer period of time as long as the participating employee remains employed throughout the incentive period (Carver, 2021). According to these predictions for the future of incentive pay, the company awarded bonuses do not seem to be slowing down and will continue to be a norm and part of employee compensation.
Hewlett-Packard Case Study
The Hewlett-Packard Company or better known as HP is an American technology company. In the mid-1990s, the company introduced a pay-for-performance plan in hopes to boost performance within the company. Pay-for-performance aimed to make an organization less hierarchical and more competitive, focused, adaptable and collaborative. At the time, surveys reported that companies actively using pay-for-performance programs showed twice the shareholder returns as those who were not actively using these programs (Beer & Cannon, 2004). Hewlett-Packard Co. tested this method with certain employees from November 1, 2000, to April 30, 2001 (Hewlett-Packard Company, 2000). If successful, the company will continue to utilize this plan in hopes to achieve the same results as other successful companies but this did not end too well for HP. The test plan was applied to teams tying ten to twenty percent of an employee’s compensation to their team’s performance. The incentive goals were categorized into three levels, with an expected ninety percent of employees being able to reach level one goals, fifty percent of employees were expected to be able to reach level two, and ten to fifteen percent for level three goals. The experiment resulted in good performance from the employees and almost all teams were able to reach levels two and three. Due to its success, managers at HP raised the goal expectations along with the incentive pay. This is where problems began to arise, with cash
13
 
as the incentive, workers began focusing on achieving this monetary bonus instead of doing the many other things that would help the company. Eventually, this system was scrapped by the managers at HP (Beer & Cannon, 2004). A few flaws that kept HP’s incentive system from being successful was that the bonuses were awkward by the team, not every individual in a team will contribute an equal amount of work, some will do more and some will do less, this was not fair considering the bonus amount would have been split evenly amongst the team. Another flaw is that the employees were too focused on the bonus; it didn't leave room for other contributions to the company, or in other words, didn't leave room for creative risks to be taken. Lastly, this severed relationships between team members and relationships among teams since they were all competing for the cash incentives. As I've mentioned earlier, companies are only successful with teamwork and cohesiveness. Hewlett-Packard’s incentive pay experiment is a lesson to all organizations that the more you focus people on monetary incentives and use money as a motive, the more disruption there will be in the company.
Fharoh Omick: Cross-Cultural Differences within Compensation
This paper has introduced concepts of compensation; however, how does this translate into environments of cross-cultures? It is well known that environments with many cultures need higher engagement and understanding. This is due to the differences in cultural expectations, practices, and routines. For example, if many people within a company value collectivism, then managers may prefer team-performance-based pay rather than merit-based pay. Given the dynamic company culture, we explore the different expectations of compensation, compensation management, and how the emergence of information technology (IT) jobs has brought a discussion of compensation practices into question, and how this relates to cross-cultural topics. Lastly, a Japanese pay case study concerning seniority-pay (nenko joretsu).
14

Compensation Differences within Culture
To begin, we look at how beliefs in specific countries affect compensation ideas, compensation cultures, the different compensation systems, and the cultural differences in employee benefits. The critical point to understand is that not all compensation programs are equally acceptable around the world. An example is Wal-Mart’s unwillingness to establish an egalitarian German wage-setting practice (Frank, 2015). The issue is that firms assume that business compensation systems are effectively the same as their base of operations. However, this is a detrimental assumption that can lead to disastrous effects. Focusing on the individual attitudes to compensation, we analyze European countries and the United States. More specifically, we are looking at how each country varies in the allocation and distribution of resources to individuals, in both fiscal and payment systems. Frank (2015) notes that European countries have a history of aristocratic systems that created an attitude of not valuing the link between effort and reward. However, in the United States, it is quite the opposite as people aspire for the “American Dream,” and believe that hard work pays off in the end. An interesting comparison that perpetuates this idea of cultural attitudes is in China. In ancient China, due to high levels of rice- farming practices, led to a more collectivistic culture that persists today (Frank, 2015). These differences highlight the interplay between social structures and on the flipside, values, beliefs, and attitudes. These comparisons can reach a level that affects individuals' viewpoints of fairness. A study found that “only 30% of Americans believe that luck plays a bigger role than effort in determining income, whereas 54% of Europeans believe that luck is more important” (Frank, 2015, p. 161). The article mentions this may explain why there is a higher income inequality tolerance in America than in Europe. What this means is that people perceive their
15
 
high gains of wealth as the fruits of their labor rather than the lucky decisions and crossroads they may have been presented with. Additionally, this explains the cultural attitude differences as Europeans are less fond of high-income inequalities. Evident in the fact that “U.S. chief executives’ compensation was 325 times the average worker’s pay in 2010; for European companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, the ratio of CEO to average worker pay was 115 times” (Frank, 2015, p. 161). Next, focusing on why specific compensation systems may not work within specific cultures due to the topics mentioned. What has been described are known as “Just World Beliefs,” which means the fundamental psychological beliefs of inherent fairness in the world (Frank, 2015). Essentially, as detailed prior, each culture has its concept of fairness which can explain the compensation systems to some degree. Furthermore, these differences are studied to be negatively correlated. Frank (2015, p. 165) analyzes “that preferences for individual compensation systems are not merely strategically driven by people’s beliefs about their expectations to perform well in the task” Rather, the different cultural backgrounds encompass the differences found in the preference in individual-based systems or performance-based systems. This critical point is important to note as this illustrates that inherent cultural beliefs can shape how individuals view compensation and their preferences.
These psychological beliefs are all but intangible and can be compromised through thorough management. This next section shows how strategic compensation management can differ from organization to organization but can be an effective method to handle cultural differences. Additionally, we discuss how compensation strategies are affected by culture through empirical research. One method is that variable pay has been more encouraged through progressive firms. The primary use of variable-based schemes is to increase employee
16

productivity and performance. This is through the use of individual, group, or organizational bonuses, incentives, profit sharing, or other pay-for-performance methods (Mishra, 2012). As the new wave of compensation systems slowly innovates the business world, there are specific cultural compensations. We begin with the different cultures of compensation management and the compensation strategies associated with them. There are four cultures, apathetic, paternalistic, demanding, and involvement. We begin with apathetic which means there is no place for strategic compensation as there is no focus on people or improvement of performance. These include seniority rules, which will be discussed later on, promotions are slow and automatic and performance management are rare (Mishra, 2012). Next is a paternalistic culture which has less concern with performance as most organizations meet employees' needs such as daycare, flex time, etc. Therefore, it carries the least priority in these organizations. A demanding culture is a strategic culture that is most valued and focuses on efficiency, competition, and individual performance which drives compensation of employees. Lastly, is involvement culture which includes the core values of both people and performance. They involve both fixed and strategic compensation as both individual performance and team considerations carry equal weightage. Compensation is orientated on both fixed and incentives (Mishra, 2012). Keeping into consideration that these are all cultures of compensation, in contemporary human resource management it is accepted that compensation packages, training, and development will benefit in the long run. (Mishra, 2012). However, international businesses must find a common ground, this is due to the differential factor of compensation. This means that managers should make up for the differences in currency valuation, standards of living, lifestyle norms, and so on.
17

These cultures of strategic compensation management are laid out to complete our understanding of how to conduct compensation packages and methods. At this point, this paper has not defined which practice is the most effective but rather illustrated the direction in which would be most beneficial for managers in the long run. Bridging off from the strategic cultures, we analyze the roles of culture in developing compensation strategies. Bear in mind that the relation of the strategic cultures will be compared within empirical evidence of compensation strategies. A notable difference is benefits provided to employees than their base salary. The four practices in question are flexible benefit plans, workplace child-care programs, career-break schemes, and maternity programs. (Schuler, 1998). Firms that promote these qualities of life benefits are societies with high femininity as they take into consideration of employees’ personal and social needs and their lives outside of work. (Schuler, 1988). Furthermore, countries with high uncertainty avoidance emphasize predictability and security in career planning, also workday schedules. Therefore, it allows employees to deal with unpredictable situations. (Schuler, 1998). Uncertainty avoidance defines as how cultures differ in the amount of tolerance they have for unpredictability. It is concluded that the benefits stated before will be offered in countries that have high levels of uncertainty avoidance. Focusing on different benefits, in Germany employers reimburse their executives for their car expenses, while in Japan they may get a car plus expenses. Also, British companies, typically provide a company car for managers. While the United States provides free health care benefits (Mishra, 2012). Within China managers are expected to be hard-working, involved, and lead by example. As their base salary is low but is provided many benefits, such as housing, transportation, meals, clothing, etc. As
18

foreign firms value salary more than benefits and this is becoming more widely sought. (Mishra, 2012).
Technology and How it Affected Compensation in IT Firms.
Technology is a highly volatile market within the world and is ever-changing. With these high levels of change, how does compensation reflect these changes? Wang (2019) begins with a case study of an IT firm in Taiwan and analyzes its compensation strategies. He notes that they serve nonmonetary rewards which include selecting their titles, providing training programs for three months, and then a potential pay raise after three months and language courses for English. Furthermore, flextime is granted to employees within tech firms. This is due to the rise of technology and allowing employees not required to be in the office during traditional hours. They can work from home or complete work over the computer within the time they feel they are the most productive. This is an example of a paternalistic culture. Compared to the other firms that they analyzed which are not within the IT field, they faced a rigid bureaucratic system, did not utilize strategic IT compensation, or had an emphasis on competitive negotiable pay which caused frustrations. (Wang, 2019). The cultural aspect that affects this case study is that training IT talents at a reduced pay level is common for smaller IT firms in Taiwan. It is noted that the social feature of conformity to groups in a collective culture, where IT talents are more loyal to firms and hesitant to switch (Wang, 2019). While in the US firm where commitment to capitalism is prevailing, competitive negotiation compensation is also emphasized. Furthermore, Taiwan is a society with a high level of power distance, so nonmonetary rewards can be just as valuable as monetary rewards.
19
 
Case Study: Hitachi Ltd, Seniority-pay
It is evident that cross-cultural differences are prevalent within international firms and
these differences can increase uncertainty. One practice of compensation that is prevalent within all cultures is seniority-based pay (nenko joretsu). While this pay practice is slowly being rejected by the next generation, there are still some implicit implications within firms. What this means is that those who have been employed the longest are seen as more loyal regardless of younger employee skill sets. This compensation system is part of the apathetic culture which highlights management failures of compensation. However, we will focus more on the context of Japan, as this practice is still widely used within the larger companies in Japanese business. We focus on one business Hitachi Ltd, which has recently dropped the seniority pay practices. Hitachi Ltd is a 110-year-old conglomerate that focuses on infrastructure and related digital services. Around 2020 is when the new pay system of merit pay due to the considerable number of people mismatching their positions (Yamazaki, 2020). The system will be adopted by laying out job descriptions for its domestic workforce and using it as a criterion for performance assessments that are linked to pay (Yamazaki, 2020). They noted that seniority-based pay made sense within the manufacturing training grounds as new hires were taught how to make specific equipment, therefore has transferred over the white-collar workers (Yamazaki, 2020). Essentially, Japanese firms based in Japan are faced with high numbers of seniority-based pay due to the lack of transition and innovation of compensation systems. As stated in multiple sources mentioned within this paper, it brings a lack of management and slower promotions within the company.
20
 
Gage Lee: Strategic Employee Recognition
Variable pay systems
One of the biggest ways to retain employees and keep them happy is to compensate,
reward, and recognize them. When an employee puts in their hard work for a company, of course they would like to be acknowledged for that in some way. The use of variable pay programs is one of the ways to show and give back to your employee as an employer. Variable pay programs include many different types of ways to give back. This can be bonus or commission plans, group incentive plans, individual bonus plans, and many more. Variable pay plans are compensation programs that deliver lump-sum payments to individuals based on their performance or predetermined objectives of the organization, business unit, and/or individual (Wilson, 2003, pg 172). All of these overarch one of the main reasons for such plans, driving total organizational success.
There are quite a few different ways that variable pay programs can be administered. Excluding discretionary bonus plans, retention bonuses, spot award programs, there are eleven different types of plan and incentives. The first type of plan is profit sharing plans. Profit sharing plans are when a company shares its profits with its employees. This type of plan is one of the oldest and one of the most widely used types of plan because of how simple it is and its ability for employers to contribute to retirement plans and 401(k) plans. The second type of plan is executive annual bonus plans. This type of plan allows senior executives to receive monetary compensation based on individual and company performance.
The third type of plan is management bonus plans. Management bonus plans are similar to executive annual bonus plans in which workers receive a payment based on individual and company performance. The biggest difference is that this is a plan for middle to upper level
21
 
managers to receive annual payments that is determined by executives who set objectives and assessments of performance. The fourth type of plan is individual performance plans. This type of plan awards employees bonuses for meeting personal objectives. Something to note is that individual performance plans are for employees who are not of managerial status and that it is similar to management bonus plans in which payouts are based on individual and company performance.
The fifth type of plan is sales incentive plans. This is a type of incentive plan in which employees receive a commission or bonus for meeting such performance objectives or reaching a certain amount of sales. Commission is usually based on direct sales performance measures, revenues from particular products or services, or the dollar volume of units sold. The sixth type of plan is sales management plans. This type of plan ties the managers incentives directly to the performance of their sales staff. In other words, their payout is directly related to how their sales staff is doing and how much is being sold. Sales management plans motivate managers to encourage their team to do well too because in the end, their incentives are based on the team itself.
The seventh type of plan is individual piece rate incentives. These incentives are based on each unit of work that an individual produces, they receive a predetermined amount of monetary compensation. The eighth type of plan is goal sharing or team incentives. This incentive plan is based on the performance of a team of people. These teams of people could be a department, location, etc. The incentives for this type of plan is given out equally to each individual part of the team that contributed.
The ninth type of plan is gain sharing plans. Gain sharing plans are very similar to profit sharing plans, the only difference being that it is dedicated to a certain team or unit of workers.
22

Payments for this type of plan has to do with the achievement of performance levels based on a predetermined baseline. The tenth type of plan is project based incentive plans. Payouts for this incentive plan is based on the success and performance of a project. Once the project is complete, each member who contributed to the overall project will receive some sort of monetary compensation. Lastly, the final type of plan is key contributor incentive plans. This plan aims to look at certain contributors to an achievement. Aside from group payouts, this plan takes key contributors into mind and people who are viewed as an essential asset.
It is crucial to understand and go through each of these types of variable pay plans. Understanding what each and every one of them entail and what the employee must do to receive the monetary compensation can help to identify its flaws. As an employer, of course compensating your employees for the work that they do will make you look good. Such plans do have their advantages like encouraging performance focus and increasing friendly company competitiveness. But, these types of pay plans do not always work out for employees and actually have a few issues associated with them. Some of the main issues being how it can be difficult for employers to track performance measures or peoples general resistance to these types of incentive plans. Tracking performance measures is not only costly but it is also not the easiest to conduct in a reliable manner. For both executives and employees, bad experiences from past employers can push them away from variable pay plans. For executives, there are thoughts where employees are paid a salary, so why should they be paid more on top of that. For employees, they may feel concerned that goals set out by executives are unattainable and it is out of their control to request improvement.
23

Case study and strategic employee recognition
This leads me to discuss strategic employee recognition and how it is another way to
acknowledge employees in relation to monetary compensation. To further discuss this topic, let's look into a case study about Thoreau Consulting Group or TCG. This case about TCG talks about how to create a work culture that allows for peoples best efforts and qualities to shine. TCG is a consulting firm that specializes in people management systems and strategic alignment. They do a great job at giving effective recognition to their employees and also keeps the workplace fun and enjoyable while also keeping good balance. This work culture can be seen through their informal employee recognition practices and programs. A part of the strategic planning process, TCG puts aside money from their budget at the start of each fiscal year just for recognition initiatives. The money is there in the recognition fund and employees are encouraged to use it to help recognize other staff. Also noting that their recognition program is intentionally informal because it allows for a more fun experience and maximizes employees creativity and naturalness. This process that TCG has going on has been proven to be successful for them, so much so that they implemented other programs.
Variable pay plans and compensation plans in general are pretty complex when it comes to designing and implementing. Recognition programs are very easy to design but not the easiest to implement and operate effectively and consistently. But if done right, it can create a work culture that is needed to productively implement the company's strategies and achieve a continual competitive advantage against competitors. Compensation plans, by their very nature, are delayed in the ability to recognize and reinforce desired behaviors (Wilson, 2003, pg 223). Employee recognition is one way to boost employee satisfaction to encourage them to continue hard work when it comes to working towards things like variable pay plans and incentives. From
24
 
an employee perspective, receiving monetary compensation is not everything especially because these things are not immediate. An easy display of appreciation or positive comment has that instant impact on the employee. This is a different type of compensation in which employers can provide a more meaningful way to show appreciation to recognize the work that employees put in. Implementing recognition programs strategically gives employees a way to celebrate one another, build an overall stronger team, and motivate them to do their best work. For many organizations, recognition may not always be sincere, affecting the relationship between your employees.
When accomplishing a work goal or doing an outstanding job at your job duties, who wouldn’t want to get recognized for that. Special recognition is something that employers can do to generate some excitement and positivity within the workplace when a desired outcome is achieved. There are a few types of recognition initiatives, one of them being team celebrations. These types of celebrations are used to recognize an entire group rather than just an individual. It is a time where employers can bring together their teams and give appreciation and thanks for helping reach something like a company goal. Other initiatives like simple employee recognition is also one of the more common types. Employee recognition can come in many different forms as mentioned above. All of which are dedicated to recognizing an individual's work performance and contributions to the company. This can be effective if done right but simple employee recognition may not always be successful. More important than the recognition itself is how it is delivered. Delivering the recognition with the utmost sincerity and appreciation can make it more meaningful for the person receiving it.
There are a few criteria that can be implemented into current programs as well as new ones along with training programs too. There is the acronym “STUFF” that is used to help
25

implement effective recognition and reward programs. Breaking this down, the “S” stands for sincere. As mentioned previously, the reward or recognition has to be distributed in an appreciative and honest manner. Recognition that is given in an insincere way probably will do more damage than good (Wilson, 2003, pg 226). For most, usually when something seems calculated or practiced, people can detect that especially when it comes to rewards. The “T” stands for timely which goes into the time frame in which a reward or recognition should be given. They should be given as soon as possible because it can greatly reduce the impact of the recognition effort itself. The “U” stands for understood by the person. This stresses the importance of making sure the person receiving the reward understands why they are receiving it. By saying why the reward is given and its importance to the organization can encourage that behavior to carry on and continue. The “F” stands for the person which means that the reward needs to be meaningful to the receiver. In order for the recognition effort to have the desired impact, it must be something that the receiver values (Wilson, 2003, pg 227). In other words, the reward should be based on what was accomplished in order for it to be best effective in things like future and desired behavior. The last “F” stands for fun which goes to say that rewards and recognition should be something enjoyable. This is to say that making rewards and recognition fun will have a greater and lasting impact. If it isn’t considered fun by the receiver then it only makes the reward or recognition seem almost pointless. If taken into consideration, the “STUFF” criteria is an overall great structure to incorporate a successful rewards and recognition system. Recognition and technology
By taking all of this into consideration, one of the main takeaways is that recognition is a crucial aspect of the process of change within any workplace. Reward and recognition allows for desired behaviors and actions of employees to flourish and helps to retain and keep them as well.
26
 
With the rise of technology in the workplace, people now rely heavily on speed and how quickly things come and go. Technology has greatly impacted how employees in the workplace perceive recognition and rewards. Because technology is quick, instant gratification has become more present within workplaces and employees seem to expect the same when it comes to being rewarded or recognized. Many companies, especially those with a larger group of employees can benefit from using technology to reward and recognize. Constructive use of technology has made it easier to reward and recognize their workforce in an easier, faster, and more timely manner, making the whole process smoother to operate (Pathak, 2022). One of the ways that this is done through technology is things like company blogs or peer recognition. Both of these allow others to thank, compliment, and reach out to anyone in the company instantly. This keeps everyone feeling more engaged and satisfied because of the instant appreciation they receive through such tools. Technology has given employers a new perspective on how they are able to reward and recognize employees and evidently be more efficient as a whole.
Natalie Kwon: How AI is Affecting Compensation Decisions
Artificial Intelligence, also known as AI, is one facet of technology innovation that has been disrupting many aspects of business. AI can be defined as the “ability of a digital computer or computer-controlled robot to perform tasks commonly associated with intelligent beings” (Copeland). AI is a decision making process based on thousands of records of data and outcomes, developing and understanding of relationships from this data to create a decision-making process that continues to evolve with new data. From financial analysis of risks to marketing automations, AI technology offers businesses the opportunity to make business procedures more logic-based,
27

efficient, and cost effective. Personnel compensation is no exception to the growing opportunities of AI applications.
AI Used For Skill Valuation and Changing Compensation Criteria
Skill valuation and salary recommendation are two ways that AI offers assistance in personnel compensation. Typically, without AI, personnel compensation will often rely on the history of the company’s own pay scales and valuations to provide raises or benefits to their employees. This does make sense; employees often determine the value of their raise or bonus through comparison of their current salary or the salary of others. Therefore, a benefits specialist in a company can use previous records of bonuses and salaries to create new compensation offers. However, in a world where data is becoming more easily accessible to both companies and employees, this no longer makes a company as competitive. Employees are now able to compare the valuation of their skills and salary through comparison both within the company and in external sources on the Internet.
Instead of looking at solely internal data sets or history for the monetary value of skill sets and compensation, AI can combine both internal and external sets of data, quickly comparing swaths of data that would otherwise take a human hours to analyze and draw conclusions from. In a 2019 article from the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), author Joanne Sammer shares how IBM implemented AI in their human resources processes in addition to making performance management an ongoing process versus annual assessments. To remain competitive in compensation and offer fair valuation, IBM uses AI to provide compensation recommendations based on an employee’s developed skill sets versus their job. Tying compensation or salary increase to skill sets can be very nuanced; the market value of a specific skill can grow and decrease widely over time, while new skills can grow in value quickly but be
28
 
difficult to find in employees. For these reasons, skill-based compensation can be widely complicated, rapidly changing, and difficult to understand on a large scale as a single employee. For these reasons, IBM’s personnel compensation AI offers decision making to assist compensation decisions, ranging from low to high increases in compensation. While the final decision is still up to the human manager, less than 5% of IBM managers disagree with the AI (Sammers). In addition to personnel compensation managers receiving assistance in skill-based compensation, employees can also feel motivated to develop their skills and remain competitive. Knowing that certain skills are rewarded, employees can focus on developing specific skills to remain inspired to grow and be competitive employees, both in IBM and in the general market. In these ways, AI in personnel compensation provides benefits for compensation managers and employees through the use of external and internal data on a large scale for fair compensation. AI Perpetuating and Eliminating Bias
Another controversial aspect of AI in personnel compensation is its effect on bias, wage gaps, and income inequality. AI brings many benefits to businesses but also disrupts the current processes of business in ways that not all industries or employees can manage to keep up with. If used correctly, AI can reduce bias in personnel compensation for employees. While a compensation manager can be aware of one’s internal bias and recognize it, they are still subject to consciously (or unconsciously) basing their compensation decisions on these qualities. Using data and a holistic overview of each candidate’s skills, AI will overlook characteristics such as race, gender, or appearance in its consideration for compensation. With this in mind, using data only to make compensation decisions offers the opportunity to reduce the wage gap for minority or discriminated communities.
29
 
However, achieving this type of AI cannot be done easily and then forgotten about once implemented. Like humans, the decision making process of AI is builty slowly over time, and can continue to change with the data given. For these reasons, it is not uncommon for AI to begin with an ingrained bias if given data that is biased, incomplete, or possesses historical inequalities. As a result, if the AI is taught that decisions are made with this ingrained bias or error, the incorrect bias will be perpetuated within the AI (Sammers). To avoid this, personnel compensation managers should remain proactive by how AI tools are collecting data, constantly checking in on the AI’s results, and understanding how managers use these generated results. The collection of data, whether it be from internal or external sources, or both, is important in generating a bias-free AI. Personnel compensation managers using AI should consider giving the AI data from internal and external sources that vary in geography and company. Because there is no ethical or moral determination in AI, being based on historical data only, the outcomes or relationships developed by AI’s decision making can feel harsh or exclusive. For these reasons, managers should constantly monitor the results of the AI and converse with managers on how the data is being used and interpreted. AI remains a frontier technology that can often feel uncharted to businesses and managers, especially when used in unique areas such as compensation. Understanding these risks and rewards in AI use for personnel compensation is important to making the best business decisions.
The Disruption of Wage & Salaries with AI in All Industries
While the use of AI in personnel compensation calculations and recommendations offers specific risk and opportunity in the HR industry, it is also important to consider the application of AI on a larger scale, and how this technology is disrupting the overall salary and compensation of employees. This discussion is not to be confused with the prior paragraphs on algorithmic misuse
30
 
and error; rather, this topic discusses how AI is disrupting compensation as a whole by replacing low-education workers on a massive scale, increasing the wage gap between skilled and less- skilled workers. In a June 2021 article published online by Forbes, senior contributor Jack Kelly discusses how AI automation is attributed to 50 to 70 percent of wage changes since 1980 (Kelly). Put simply, AI is replacing the jobs of less skilled workers, resulting in the replaced workers receiving lesser wages than before. This further increases the wage gap between skilled and unskilled workers. With less potential for income and lowered wages, less skilled workers are then even less likely to have the financial means to be educated and more skilled. This wage gap issue compounds in effect, growing larger and larger with each generation.
These jobs that AI is now replacing varies from physical labor in warehouse management to assembly lines, and author Jack Kelly encompasses these jobs being automated and replaced by AI as blue collar jobs. However, with the continued development of AI technology and its potential, there is a forecasted risk for AI to disrupt some white collar careers as well, creating a “double disruption” in human jobs (Kelly). While it could be argued that disrupting these jobs for physical labor and current human jobs will generate more profitability in businesses and lower costs of production, it comes at the risk of displacing a large number of workers who are not trained for the new careers requiring even more technical skill or education. It will create an environment in which technology outruns the speed of worker’s skill or education, greatly reducing their career accessibilities and income potential. On the other hand, the data-forward business conglomerates and corporations will thrive in the new, advanced future of technology and only continue to have financial gains. Organizations must consider these situations when creating compensation and development goals for their employees. If an organization forecasts the use of AI to improve business performance, they may also consider education as a form of compensation to prepare
31

employees that may be replaced with AI technology. As mentioned in other sections of this report, compensation does not come in the form of cash only; it can be a proactive compensation of skill development and training that is invested in an employee’s future in the company and as a business professional.
In another possible compensation solution for those displaced by AI technology, Universal Basic Income (UBI) is a trending potential policy to support the many industry workers affected. UBI can be defined as a government-based compensation system in which all citizens are given a regular stipend to offer financial assistance, regardless of their situation. Some arguments against this policy say that this will discourage people from working, creating a reliance on the state or national government. Regardless, financial compensation policies such as UBI must be monitored and accounted for in business and personnel compensation (Kelly).
Creating Trust in AI for Compensation Decisions
Following a discussion of AI technology in personnel compensation through skill-based analysis, inherent risks in perpetuating or eliminating bias through improper and proper use of AI, and AI as a whole affecting salary changes and compensation, it is reasonable to conclude with a distrust or hesitancy towards the future of AI, as an employee or a business leader. In a recent article by SHRM, Dave Zielinski acknowledges this uncertainty and offers four suggestions on building trust in using AI in compensation decisions.
First, leaders should understand the general climate and affect that employees have towards AI-driven compensation. Employee’s perception of fairness in compensation is based more on the outcome of the compensation decision, rather than the decision maker. Further, companies should ensure that implementation of AI in compensation is followed by communication and education of employees. “The more you educate employees about how and why AI is used in pay decisions,
32
 
the more accepting they'll be of their own compensation outcomes that involve the technology,” author Zielinski suggests. Second, AI implementation in compensation should begin as a supplementary resource and suggestion to managers and leaders with compensation roles. Instead of posing AI as the replacement of decision making, it can serve as a comparison for managers to understand their potential biases and offer good decisions based on historical data. Third, organizations implementing AI should begin with some areas of compensation, instead of algorithmically making all compensation decisions at once. This can be practically executed by businesses choosing to focus on AI compensation for short-term decisions first. Finally, Zielinski suggests sharing about the benefits of AI with leaders, offering AI as a solution to create more time for managers to focus on performance coaching and less focus on compensation (Zielinski).
The development of artificial intelligence and its applications cannot be ignored by any business leader, regardless of size, industry, or role. In the context of compensation, AI technology and its potential is beginning to take shape with an understanding of the risks and rewards involved. Even if a company is too small to consider AI in compensation feasible, it will continue to remain an important topic as AI disrupts compensation as a decision making process and as a whole for skilled and unskilled workers.
Mackenzie Plunkett: Tuition Reimbursement & Conclusion
Contrary to popular belief, employee compensation is not only one’s wages or pay. Employee compensation includes all types of compensation and benefits that are part of an employee’s total package upon hire. In this portion of our project, I will analyze employee tuition reimbursement as a category of compensation. Then I will discuss prominent issues regarding tuition reimbursement. Finally, I will focus on how personnel compensation is affected
33

when employees return to higher education to complete graduate-level degrees and higher. Tuition reimbursement is a niche area of compensation. According to our textbook, it can be considered a combination of a cash-related and membership-based program (Page 65). Cash- based initiatives aim to have a material impact on employee’s standard of living and lifestyle. Whereas, membership-based programs allow all employees, regardless of performance or level, to receive certain services as a right of joining the organization. Other examples of this combination include health and welfare benefits, broad-based stock options, child and elder care services, and wellness programs.
Tuition Reimbursement Best Practices
It is common for companies to invest in their workforce through tuition programs.
Tuition reimbursement is a predetermined agreement between an employer and employee that states a company acknowledges that it will pay for a certain amount of an employee’s tuition, as long as specific requirements are met. If appropriately executed, these programs can lower turnover, attract motivated candidates, and develop future leaders within organizations. Some companies pay colleges and universities directly through issuing checks to financial aid offices. In comparison, other firms choose to have the employee pay for the tuition upfront and issue the predetermined amount of tuition to the employee in the form of a check or bonus. Not all tuition programs are equal; differences can include minimum grade requirements, specific colleges that employees can only choose from, required length of tenure at a company, and if the reimbursement must be paid back to the employer when an employee leaves the company.
Another reason why this benefit is attractive is for tax purposes. Due to the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, employees can write off up to $5,250 per year in tuition assistance at the undergraduate and graduate level when filing taxes. However, if the tuition reimbursement
34
 
is paid directly to an employee and is more than the $5,250 threshold, then the remainder of payment is considered taxable income. It is important to note that this rule applies even if the education is not related to an employee’s current position. According to a 2018 Employee Benefits Survey by SHRM, approximately 51% of respondents’ companies provide education assistance. During the Great Recession of 2008 and 2009, this percentage was higher at 66%; exactly a 15% gap. Furthermore, 49% of their companies offer educational assistance at the graduate level. On the other hand, 61% of the same companies provided graduate level assistance in 2008. Evidently, this aspect of personnel compensation has not returned to past figures.
HR’s Role in Tuition Programs
HR professionals have a complex role in the design and implementation of tuition
reimbursement programs. According to an article by SHRM, HR professionals must ask the following questions when creating a new program: Who will be eligible to receive the benefit? Will cash or another benefit be made available in lieu of the educational benefit to employees who do not want or need the educational benefit? Will student loan repayment be offered? What tax structure is desired? Will the organization seek a strategic partnership with a particular educational organization? Will the organization seek, in effect, a volume discount or other quid pro quo for employees who are steered to a particular educational institution? Will the organization approve of certain educational institutions and disapprove of others? Must the educational institution have a certain level of accreditation? What parameters will be placed on the type of education that is subsidized? How much will the organization pay? How will the organization handle unexpected circumstances? When and how will the organization pay? How will the organization manage the educational benefit program? (SHRM 2022).
35
 
It is key to acknowledge that depending on employees’ lifestyles and interests, not all benefits provided by firms are utilized. This is why effective communication is paramount in order to justify the value of tuition reimbursement. Communication of these programs should be offered orally and in written form, through all levels of management, and online through social media and other branding initiatives. Additionally, marketing the benefit of tuition reimbursement can easily work in favor of a firm and appeal to driven applicants.
Real Life Examples of Tuition Reimbursement Programs
It has become increasingly customary for large corporations to offer tuition assistance programs. Companies like Starbucks, Chase Bank, Target, Amazon, and Walmart have enhanced the college selection and press coverage of their education programs in recent years. In July of 2021, Walmart announced that “as the largest U.S. private employer, Walmart is committing to invest nearly $1 billion over the next five years in career-driven training and development” (Walmart 2021). Not long after, Target also announced a similar program for their employees company-wide by investing $200 million over the next four years. Target’s initial press release states, “Target will provide direct payments to their academic institution of up to $5,250 for non- master's degrees and up to $10,000 for master’s degrees each year to reduce the burden of up- front” (Target 2021). Interestingly, both companies partner with a third party firm called Guild Education to manage these programs.
Guild Education is a public benefit corporation, also referred to as a ‘PBC’, meaning that the business was created to generate public and social good, operates responsibly and sustainability, and considered the “triple bottom line” - people, planet, and profit. On the company’s website, Guild Education claims that firms experience an average of 2.8x return when investing in education and upskilling through Guild. This firm acts as the liaison between
36
 
employers and educational providers, customizes programs based on corporate needs, and also offers 300 full-time coaching for employees. However, the public has expressed dissatisfaction regarding Guild’s true motivations as placing profits over people.
Like a real estate brokerage, Guild receives about a 1⁄3 pay cut for every student they send to a college, on behalf of their employer. Recent articles have stated Guild knowingly places students in programs that are clearly not the right fit by sending them to out-of-state schools, where the tuition is more expensive (Bloomberg 2021). For example, Guild and the University of Florida’s Online Division severed ties in November 2020 after a long history of an overwhelming amount of student referrals. Moreover, UF rejected 82% of Guild’s students and only 9 students had actually graduated from the partnership. In addition, Guild’s management reportedly lacks diversity as most of the organization are white employees with privileged backgrounds.
From an employee perspective, furthering higher education while concurrently working can raise some concerns. It is important to evaluate one’s accomplishments thus far and research how specific programs will directly impact one’s lifestyle and employer. For instance, creating a plan on how to balance school and work is a good best practice. Planning ahead by taking the day off before important exams and incorporating work into school projects can help lighten the load and ensure an employee’s success. Once the planning stage is complete, it is crucial to always communicate with one’s supervisor on any time commitments and generally on how one’s graduate studies are going.
Tuition Reimbursement & the COVID-19 Pandemic
In an economics news release, The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that obtaining a graduate degree continues to correlate with relatively low rates of unemployment:
37
 
Between January and October 2021, 382,000 persons ages 20 to 29 earned an advanced degree--that is, a master's, professional, or doctoral degree. About 8 in 10 of those who recently earned an advanced degree were employed (81.6 percent). The unemployment rate for recent advanced degree recipients was 2.6 percent in October 2021, down from 12.6 percent in October 2020 (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2021).
However, this significant decrease of 10 percent in unemployment can be attributed to the COVID-19 lockdowns throughout the United States and other countries. In October of 2020, for context, 39 states experienced COVID-19 case spikes and global cases exceeded 40 million worldwide. Whereas in October of 2021, COVID-19 vaccines were widely available and local economies started to switch from covid response to covid management.
Conclusion
In conclusion, personnel compensation is an umbrella term for many types of compensation like base pay, short-term and long-term incentives, and differential pay. There is substantial evidence that company bonuses will continue to be a regular benefit of a total employee compensation package. Employers have a large selection of variable pay structures like profit sharing, executive annual bonuses, management bonuses, individual performance plans, sales incentives, sales management plans, individual piece rates, goal sharing, gain sharing, project based, and key contributor incentives plans. With new technological advancements, instant gratification for employees has become easier for firms to establish by utilizing company blogs, social media, and peer recognition.
Moreover, Artificial Intelligence (AI) assists professionals with skill evaluation and salary recommendation of employees. However, AI applications are disrupting compensation as a whole by replacing low-skilled workers to improve business performance. As a result, this
38
 
creates a skill gap in the workforce in need of re-skilling. One way to do this is through educational and training programs. Companies continue to invest in their workforce through tuition reimbursement programs as part of their compensation package benefits. If appropriately executed, these programs can lower turnover, attract motivated candidates, have tax benefits for both employer and employee, and develop future leaders within organizations.
References
Barro, J. (2016, September 9). Wells Fargo's scandal is a cautionary tale about
39

incentive pay. Business Insider. Retrieved May 4, 2022, from https://www.businessinsider.com/wells-fargos-scandal-is-a-cautionary-tale-about- incentive-pay-2016-9
Beer, M., & Cannon, M. (2004). The importance of pay in employee motivation ... - PSU. Retrieved from
https://download.clib.psu.ac.th/datawebclib/e_resource/trial_database/WileyInterScience CD/pdf/HRM/HRM_2.pdf
Benstead, S. (2021, July 29). What is incentive pay? Breathe. Retrieved from https://www.breathehr.com/en-gb/blog/topic/business-process/what-is-incentive- pay#:~:text=Incentive%20pay%20is%20financial%20reward,performance%20figures%2 0or%20financial%20targets
Beqom. (2021, May 21). The importance of technology for compensation alignment. Compensation Management Software for Large Enterprises. Retrieved May 4, 2022, from https://www.beqom.com/blog/the-importance-of-technology-for-compensation- alignment#:~:text=Using%20technology%20for%20compensation%20management,colle agues%20and%20to%20industry%20norms.
Carver, C. (2021, September 28). Planning for 2022: Incentives, bonuses, and variable compensation. Human Resources Today. Retrieved from https://www.humanresourcestoday.com/bonuses-and-incentives/report/trends/?open- article-id=20265351&article-title=planning-for-2022--incentives--bonuses--and-variable- compensation&blog-domain=astronsolutions.net&blog-title=astron-solutions
40
      
Copeland, B. (2022, March 18). artificial intelligence. Encyclopedia Britannica.
https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence
Frank, Wertenbroch, K., & Maddux, W. W. (2015). Performance pay or redistribution? Cultural differences in just-world beliefs and preferences for wage inequality. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 130, 160–170. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2015.04.001
Guyton, G. P. (1999). A brief history of workers' compensation. The Iowa orthopaedic journal. Retrieved May 4, 2022, from
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1888620/ Hartford, T. (n.d.). Workers Compensation History.
The Hartford. Retrieved April 26, 2022, from https://www.thehartford.com/workers- compensation/history#:~:text=In%20the%20late%2019th%20century,the%20Sickness% 20and%20Accident%20Laws.&text=Employers'%20Liability%20Law%20of%201871,a %20modern%20workers'%20compensation%20system.
Hewlett-Packard Company. (2000, November 1). Pay-for-results short-term bonus plan - Hewlett-Packard Co. Retrieved from https://corporate.findlaw.com/contracts/compensation/pay-for-results-short-term-bonus- plan-hewlett-packard-co.html
How to calculate employee bonuses by type. Indeed. (2021, June 21). Retrieved from https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/career-development/how-to-calculate-employee- bonus
41
      
Kelly, J. (2022, April 14). Artificial Intelligence has caused a 50% to 70% decrease in wages- creating income inequality and threatening millions of Jobs. Forbes. Retrieved May 7, 2022, from https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2021/06/18/artificial-intelligence-has- caused--50-to-70-decrease-in-wages-creating-income-inequality-and-threatening- millions-of-jobs/?sh=14662e510091
Kohn, A. (2014, August 1). Why incentive plans cannot work. Harvard Business Review. Retrieved from https://hbr.org/1993/09/why-incentive-plans-cannot-work
Merrick, A. (2019, August 16). Education benefits present a learning opportunity. SHRM. Retrieved May 2, 2022, from https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-
magazine/spring2019/pages/education-benefits-present-learning-opportunity.aspx Miller, S. (2020, January 2). Money talks: 5 compensation trends to watch in 2020. SHRM.
Retrieved from https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr- topics/compensation/pages/compensation-trends-to-watch-in-2020.aspx
Pathak, A. (2022, March 30). Employee rewards and recognition: The ultimate guide. Nurture an Engaged and Satisfied Workforce | Vantage Circle HR Blog. Retrieved May 3, 2022, from https://blog.vantagecircle.com/employee-rewards-and-recognition/
Payscale. (2021, November 22). What is incentive pay? Payscale. Retrieved from https://www.payscale.com/compensation-trends/incentive-pay-what-is-it-and- examples/#:~:text=Incentive%20pay%20is%20a%20form,given%20bonus%20for%20th e%20employee
42
     
R K Mishra, Punam Singh, & Shulagna Sarkar. (2012). Cross Cultural Dimension of Compensation Management: Global Perspectives. Journal of Strategic Human Resource Management, 1(2), 63–.
Sammer, J. (2021, July 7). Bringing artificial intelligence into pay decisions. SHRM. Retrieved May 7, 2022, from https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr- topics/compensation/pages/bringing-artificial-intelligence-into-pay-decisions.aspx
Schuler, R. S., & Rogovsky, N. (1998). Understanding Compensation Practice Variations across Firms: The Impact of National Culture. Journal of International Business Studies, 29(1), 159–177. http://www.jstor.org/stable/155593
Sean, P. (2021, November 18). Is performance-based pay an incentive for employees? Business News Daily. Retrieved from https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/9712-performance- based-pay.html
Society for Human Resource Management. (2022). Designing and Managing Educational
Assistance Programs2. Society for Human Resource Management. Retrieved May 3, 2022, from https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and- samples/toolkits/pages/educationalassistanceprograms.aspx
Society for Human Resource Management. (2022). Society for Human Resource Management.
Introduction to the Human Resources Discipline of Compensation. Retrieved May 5, 2022, from https://www.shrm.org/ResourcesAndTools/tools-and- samples/toolkits/Pages/introcompen
sation.aspx
Souvik Mazumdar (2020, March 9). Impact of technology on Employee Benefits
